>> Brian Holt: So let's go make it so
that we can write a note.
It's interesting that we
can look at notes, but
how do we take data back from
the client to the server?
We could have totally done this
with our no framework version, but
we would have ended up just
wiring up a bunch more stuff,
when in reality Next can just
do all this stuff for you.
So I kind of spared you another type fest.
So let's go into our app folder,
we're gonna make
another directory and
we're gonna call this one write.
You can delete the blah one,
we don't need that.
And we're going to make a page.js.
>> Brian Holt: And a lot of this
will look really familiar as well.
This is gonna have some
measure of interactivity, but
we're just going to rely
on the browser to do it,
cuz we're gonna do this through
untracked forms, right?
So we're just gonna allow the browser
to manage all the states.
So we don't need to use useState, and
then we're going to accept that back onto
our server component through
what's called a form action and
then saved to the database.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're in page.js on the right,
we're gonna import AsyncDatabase,
and we're going to import
something called postNote,
which we'll do here in just a second,
from ./postnote.
And yeah, we'll write that momentarily,
export default async function Write or
WritePage or
whatever you wanna call it, again,
just for debugging purposes.
And we're gonna say
async function getUsers.
And we're just gonna say const db = await
AsyncDatabase.open (./notes.db).
And then we're just gonna say
db.all(SELECT * FROM users).
>> Brian Holt: And
then const users = await getUsers.
>> Brian Holt: Again, this is so nice.
For everything that I say, all the caveats
I throw at Next.js and server components,
you can't deny, this is just really nice
to be able to do this in React components.
>> Brian Holt: Even if you feel a little
dirty inside, that makes it better, right?
>> Brian Holt: [LAUGH] You're the bad
guy or the bad girl of coding,
that's how I feel all the time.
fieldset className = note-fieldset.
>> Brian Holt: legend>Write a new note.
form, and here's the magic,
action=(postNote) className= note-form.
Now, postNote is really
just gonna be a function.
But what's cool about this is that,
essentially, you're explicitly,
well, kind of explicitly, wiring up
this form call an API endpoint, and
it's just going to pass that
data directly along, right?
So you don't actually have to write
the API endpoint, you're just gonna say,
whenever this form gets called,
just invoke this function with
whatever was in the form.
Normally, we would have to pull it out,
we would have to make sure all
the data gets into the API call.
We'd have to send that API we call fetch,
right?
That would end up on a API endpoint,
and this just mushes it all together.
It's like, no,
when the form gets called, invoke this on
the server with whatever was in the form.
I think that's really cool.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
we're gonna do just a couple,
we're gonna write a form really quick.
So label,
>> Brian Holt: And
label's gonna be From, and
it's gonna be a select name= from_user.
And then we're gonna say users.map (user).
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna give
back an option for each one of them.
So you need a key, and
that's gonna be user.id, and
the value will also be user.id, and
then this will just be the user.name.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, that's a good select,
the select, label, and
then we need another label underneath
that one, which is gonna be To,
>> Brian Holt: And same sort of thing.
In fact, you probably could just copy and
paste this and just modify it manually,
don't tell anyone that's
exactly what I'm going to do.
>> Brian Holt: Actually,
it's the same, cuz in theory,
you should be able to validate this, but
validation is for people with less time,
or more time rather.
>> Student 1: So to change the name, that
write to to user, or is it [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, good point, exactly.
So yeah, so this can actually end up being
the correct thing on the server side.
And then we're just gonna put
a default value here as well, default.
The default value, at least,
is not to and from the same person, so
I'm just gonna make it to number 2.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, that's good for that.
Under that, we'll have another label,
and we'll just put the Note and
textarea name = note.
And cuz this is React, we'll make it
self-closing cuz that makes sense.
And then under that, we'll have
a button to submit the whole thing,
button type= submit.
Actually, don't need that, that's implied,
but let's be explicit and safe.
Okay, just a form, right?